All right another sort of problem find equivalent resistance between points A and B.
Let's go ahead and draw that point a
simplify what's at the top.
These are in series with each other we have a 12 and a 6.
I'm just going to write it like this at the end 18 at the top is point B.
All right.
How can I simplify the bottom here.
Well we're going to have this let's just leave the six here the way it is.
How can I simplify both of these sixes.
Now these are parallel to each other.
What do you do if you multiply them 36 divided by 12.
Multiply them divided by the sum.
That gives me three.
So you get three.
So at the end what do we get.
Both of these can be combined here.
This or simply in series with each other.
So that's a 9.
And at the end all we have to do is we get an 18 ohm resistor that is in parallel with a 9 ohm resistor.
So the last part total is 18 multiplied by nine divided by the sum of nine plus 18.
Am not going to try to do that in my head but there's Neyens and Eatons everywhere.
If I factor out a 9 from the bottom I should have one plus two.
Now this should simplify nicely that 9 could cancel with this one 18 can cancel with the three here
and I'll be left with six at the end you should be left with six ohms so all of this is equivalent to
1 6 ohm resistor.
That's it.
All right.
So if the potential drop now.
So this is kind of connected here to a battery.
You can imagine something like this 12 volt battery
find the current in each resistor.
All right.
So what I'm going to first do here is we're going to simplify this a little bit.
I'm going to kind of do this problem over here.
I can replace everything down here by nine.
We just said.
So let's start by finding the Curran's over here and we can also find the current flowing into the junction.
Right.
Because we know that total is like a 6.
So let's find out how much current is actually flowing into the junction and for that I'm just basically
replacing it by the total equivalent resistance.
So that means that the total current flowing in simply going to be my 12 volts divided by six I'm going
to get two amps flowing in.
So this guy over here is two Imp's.
That's the current flowing in.
Now part of that current is going to go up here and that's going to be the same current that's going
to flow through the 12 and the 6.
So let me call this one.
And part of the current now is also going to flow down here.
Let's call this itu.
Now you should realize right away that the voltage across both of these branches have to be the same
and the only way you can have that is if the current flowing through down here has to be bigger than
the current flowing through here because the resistance is bigger.
So how do you get the same voltage across each one.
Well you should automatically be able to write that 18 multiplied by the current flowing through there
that's the voltage drop across the top that has to be equal to the voltage drop across the bottom So
that's nine multiplied by two.
Now the other thing we know is that there's two waves going in.
So you have to have two which equals to either one plus two.
That's our junction rule.
These are the two equations we can use now to find how much current is going up here and downstairs.
So you should write that to simply going to be two times I won now use our junction equation to eliminate
Aitu.
So here I'm going to get two equals to one plus two I want gigas three I want.
All right.
Therefore the current one is two thirds amps and the current two is two times that value.
So we just found there has to be four thirds.
All right so now we know the current dallies through both of those at the top because that's the same.
Now the current to that we just solved.
Well sure it's going to be split.
Let's go back to our diagram.
So part of that current part of this you know 1.3 or three is going to be split it's going to go up
stairs.
Part of it is going to go down here.
However since both of those are the same and we know we've seen this before whenever the resistor is
the same and they're in parallel and if there's only two branches whatever goes in has to split evenly.
If it doesn't split evenly you're not going to get the same voltage drop across each branch.
Right.
So we can automatically find how much current flows through these six ohm resistors.
OK.
So for that I'm just going to call this three three is the current flowing over here and if the same
current flowing down here so three automatically has to be Aitu divided by two.
Two over two which gives me what I again that's two thirds.
That's pretty easy.
And now how much current is flowing through this 6 ohm resistor over here.
Again now when we already found this here has to be the current I do because both of those i3 is going
to combine again there's another junction right here.
We have another junction down at this point and whatever flows into the junction has to be with flowing
out of the junction.
So this is also the current Aitu.
So he's basically SOL for all of currents now flowing through each resistor using pretty simple arguments.